---
date: "2019-05-25"
title: "Formik Connected Components"
categories:
  - React
  - Formik
  - JavaScript
---

[Formik](https://jaredpalmer.com/formik/) comes with a [`connect()`
HOC](https://jaredpalmer.com/formik/docs/api/connect) that uses the [context
API](https://reactjs.org/docs/context.html) as a way of connecting to disparate
form elements. This means that form data, change handlers, touched and error
data, etc. can be easily accessed without a lot of [prop
drilling](https://kentcdodds.com/blog/prop-drilling).

Any component that lives somewhere downstream in the tree of a Formik form can
use `connect()`.

Here is an example of a connected input component:

```jsx
import { connect, getIn } from "formik";

const Input = ({ type = "text", name, label, formik }) => {
  return (
    <React.Fragment>
      <label htmlFor={name}>{label}:</label>{" "}
      <input
        type={type}
        onChange={formik.handleChange}
        onBlur={formik.handleBlur}
        value={getIn(formik.values, name)}
        name={name}
        id={name}
      />
    </React.Fragment>
  );
};

export default connect(Input);
```

This `Input` component is wrapped in `connect` which means it gets the `formik`
prop. `formik` contains everything we mentioned above and more -- all the context
you'll need to make your form element work.

Because `value`, `handleChange`, and `handleBlur` are provided, uses of this
component only need to think about the `name` and `label` props.

```jsx
const BasicForm = ({ onSubmit }) => (
  <div>
    <h1>Basic Form</h1>
    <Formik
      initialValues={{ firstName: "Liz", lastName: "Lemon" }}
      onSubmit={onSubmit}
      render={props => (
        <form onSubmit={props.handleSubmit}>
          <Input name="firstName" label="First Name" />
          <Input name="lastName" label="Last Name" />
          <button type="submit">Submit</button>
        </form>
      )}
    />
  </div>
);
```

Our `Input` components have a small interface making them easier to use.
Furthermore, because they are self-connected to their parent Formik form, we
can shuffle them around with minimal fuss. For instance, imagine our form has
grown and we want to organize some of the input elements in a _personal
information_ section of the form. We could split out a component for this
without too many changes. Our new `PersonalInformation` component doesn't need
to receive and pass down `values`, `handleChange`, etc. because the `Input`
componets have that covered.

If I've piqued your interest in Formik connected components, you can check out
this [live example](https://codesandbox.io/s/quizzical-hill-7xlwi) to give it a
try.
